Webhooks guide (#2908)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/orchestration/webhooks/zapier-ms-teams.md

---

> title: "Post to Microsoft Teams when a dbt Cloud job finishes"

Reviewer: sugg shortening and removing dbt cloud since the main section references it

```suggestion
title: "Post to Microsoft Teams when a job finishes"
```

id: webhooks-guide-zapier-ms-teams
slug: zapier-ms-teams
description: Use Zapier and webhooks to send info to Microsoft Teams
---

> This guide assumes familiarity with:

Reviewer: sugg moving this below as prerequisties

```suggestion

```

> - dbt Cloud webhooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: link to docs

Reviewer 3: Can we link to webhooks docs here?

> - Zapier

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: link to docs

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ## What does this integration do? 

Reviewer: suggesting removing H2 header and setting the guide's purpose at the beginning

```suggestion

This guide will show you how to set up an integration between dbt Cloud jobs and Microsoft Team using [dbt Cloud Webhooks](/docs/deploy/webhooks) and Zapier.  

```

> When a dbt Cloud job completes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a dbt Cloud job finishes running, the integration will:

 - Receive a webhook notification in Zapier
 - Extract the results from the dbt Cloud admin API 
 - Post a summary to a Microsoft Teams channel
```

Reviewer 2: I would suggest either listing this as numbers (because this is a sequential thing that happens), OR keeping the bullets and adding some `ands` and commas, so it would read like:

- Receive a webhook notification in Zapier,
- Extract the results from the dbt Cloud admin API,
- and post a summary to a Microsoft Teams channel.

So a reader knows all three of these things happen in a sequential order

 - receive a webhook notification in Zapier
 - extract the results from the dbt Cloud admin API 

>  - post a summary to a Microsoft Teams channel

Reviewer 3: Callout box here (or somewhere else) showing how you can do this in slack in case people find this and are looking for slack

![Screenshot of a message in MS Teams showing a summary of a dbt Cloud run which succeeded](/img/guides/orchestration/webhooks/zapier-ms-teams/ms-teams-ui.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

In order to set up the integration, you should have familiarity with:
- dbt Cloud Webhooks
- Zapier
```

> ## Integration steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Integration steps

Refer to the following steps to successfully integrate dbt Cloud jobs and Microsoft Team using webhooks and Zapier:

```

> ### Set up the connection between Zapier and Microsoft Teams 

Reviewer: suggest turning these (and the following) into numbered steps, and then the actual steps as bullets or numbered bullets (a, b,c)

```suggestion
### 1. Set up the connection between Zapier and Microsoft Teams 
```

> Install the [Zapier app in Microsoft Teams](https://appsource.microsoft.com/en-us/product/office/WA200002044) and [grant Zapier access to your account](https://zapier.com/blog/how-to-automate-microsoft-teams/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install the [Zapier app in Microsoft Teams](https://appsource.microsoft.com/en-us/product/office/WA200002044) and [grant Zapier access to your account](https://zapier.com/blog/how-to-automate-microsoft-teams/). 
```

> Note that when you install the Zapier app, it needs to be added to the team whose channel will receive the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: To receive the message, add the Zapier app to the team's channel during installation.
```

> ### Create a new Zap in Zapier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Create a new Zap in Zapier
```

Use **Webhooks by Zapier** as the Trigger, and **Catch Raw Hook** as the Event. If you don't intend to [validate the authenticity of your webhook](docs/deploy/webhooks#validate-a-webhook) (not recommended!) then you can choose **Catch Hook** instead. 

> Press **Continue**, then copy the webhook URL and put it into dbt Cloud. 

Reviewer: is there a specific place or page (or doc) that specifies where to put the webhook URL?

Author: http://localhost:3000/docs/deploy/webhooks#create-a-webhook-subscription would be the closest and we've already linked to that page, but I've reworked this a bit

![Screenshot of the Zapier UI, showing the webhook URL ready to be copied](/img/guides/orchestration/webhooks/zapier-common/catch-raw-hook.png)

> ### Configure a new webhook in dbt Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Configure a new webhook in dbt Cloud
```

> See [Create a webhook subscription](/docs/deploy/webhooks#create-a-webhook-subscription) for full instructions. Choose either **Run completed** or **Run errored**, but not both or you'll get double messages when a run fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Create a webhook subscription](/docs/deploy/webhooks#create-a-webhook-subscription) for full instructions. Choose either **Run completed** or **Run errored**, but not both, or you'll get double messages when a run fails.
```

> Make note of the Webhook Secret Key for later.

Reviewer: maybe an example of what this could look like? is it:

`hmac_secret": "12345abcde",`

Author: This is handled in the documentation and we're avoiding re-implementing docs here

Once you've tested the endpoint in dbt Cloud, go back to Zapier and click **Test Trigger**, which will create a sample webhook body based on the test event dbt Cloud sent.

The sample body's values are hard-coded and not reflective of your project, but they give Zapier a correctly-shaped object during development. 

> ### Store secrets 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Store secrets 
```

In the next step, you will need the Webhook Secret Key from the prior step, and a dbt Cloud [user token](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/user-tokens) or [service account token](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens). 

Zapier allows you to [store secrets](https://help.zapier.com/hc/en-us/articles/8496293271053-Save-and-retrieve-data-from-Zaps), which prevents your keys from being displayed in plaintext in the Zap code. You will be able to access them via the [StoreClient utility](https://help.zapier.com/hc/en-us/articles/8496293969549-Store-data-from-code-steps-with-StoreClient).

> ### Add a code action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Add a code action
```

Select **Code by Zapier** as the App, and **Run Python** as the Event. 

In the **Set up action** area, add two items to **Input Data**: `raw_body` and `auth_header`. Map those to the `1. Raw Body` and `1. Headers Http Authorization` fields from the **Catch Raw Hook** step above.

![Screenshot of the Zapier UI, showing the mappings of raw_body and auth_header](/img/guides/orchestration/webhooks/zapier-common/run-python.png)

> In the **Code** field, paste the following code: 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be helpful to have a brief description of what this code is accomplishing, even though you have in-line comments as well.

Author: At a very high level, that's what the "this integration will" section up top does - what sort of granularity were you thinking?

Reviewer 2: I think this the "integration will" section is useful for what this guide and implementation are explaining, but I think explaining the code is a little different. Would recommend just abstracting out some of your in-line code comments into a brief sentence or two (because on first glance, code is intimidating!), but again, just a suggestion!

  if step['status_humanized'] == 'Success':
    outcome_message += f"""
✅ {step['name']} ({step['status_humanized']} in {step['duration_humanized']})
"""
  else:
    outcome_message += f"""
❌ {step['name']} ({step['status_humanized']} in {step['duration_humanized']})
"""
    show_logs = not any(cmd in step['name'] for cmd in commands_to_skip_logs)
    if show_logs:
      full_log = step['logs']
      # Remove timestamp and any colour tags
      full_log = re.sub('\x1b?\[[0-9]+m[0-9:]*', '', full_log)
    
      summary_start = re.search('(?:Completed with \d+ errors? and \d+ warnings?:|Database Error|Compilation Error)', full_log)
    
      line_items = re.findall('(^.*(?:Failure|Error) in .*\n.*\n.*)', full_log, re.MULTILINE)
    
      if len(line_items) == 0:
        relevant_log = f'```{full_log[summary_start.start() if summary_start else 0:]}```'
      else:
        relevant_log = summary_start[0]
        for item in line_items:
          relevant_log += f'\n```\n{item.strip()}\n```\n'
      outcome_message += f"""
{relevant_log}
"""

# Zapier looks for the `output` dictionary for use in subsequent steps
output = {'outcome_message': outcome_message}
```

> ### Add the Microsoft Teams action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Add the Microsoft Teams action
```

Select **Microsoft Teams** as the App, and **Send Channel Message** as the Action.

In the **Set up action** area, choose the team and channel. Set the **Message Text Format** to **markdown**, then put **2. Outcome Message** from the Run Python in Code by Zapier output into the **Message Text** field. 

![Screenshot of the Zapier UI, showing the mappings of prior steps to an MS Teams message](/img/guides/orchestration/webhooks/zapier-ms-teams/ms-teams-zap-config.png)

> ### Test and deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 7. Test and deploy
```

---
title: "Post to Microsoft Teams when a job finishes"
id: webhooks-guide-zapier-ms-teams
slug: zapier-ms-teams
description: Use Zapier and the dbt Cloud API to post to Microsoft Teams
---

This guide will show you how to set up an integration between dbt Cloud jobs and Microsoft Teams using [dbt Cloud Webhooks](/docs/deploy/webhooks) and Zapier, similar to the [native Slack integration](/faqs/accounts/slack). 

When a dbt Cloud job finishes running, the integration will:

 - Receive a webhook notification in Zapier,
 - Extract the results from the dbt Cloud admin API, and

>  - Post a summary to a Microsoft Teams channel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Post a summary to a Microsoft Teams channel.
```

Zapier allows you to [store secrets](https://help.zapier.com/hc/en-us/articles/8496293271053-Save-and-retrieve-data-from-Zaps), which prevents your keys from being displayed in plaintext in the Zap code. You will be able to access them via the [StoreClient utility](https://help.zapier.com/hc/en-us/articles/8496293969549-Store-data-from-code-steps-with-StoreClient).

### 5. Add a code action
Select **Code by Zapier** as the App, and **Run Python** as the Event. 

In the **Set up action** area, add two items to **Input Data**: `raw_body` and `auth_header`. Map those to the `1. Raw Body` and `1. Headers Http Authorization` fields from the **Catch Raw Hook** step above.

![Screenshot of the Zapier UI, showing the mappings of raw_body and auth_header](/img/guides/orchestration/webhooks/zapier-common/run-python.png)

In the **Code** field, paste the following code, replacing `YOUR_SECRET_HERE` with the secret you created when setting up the Storage by Zapier integration. Remember that this is not your dbt Cloud secret.

> This code will validate the authenticity of the request, extract the run logs for the completed job from the Admin API, and then build a summary message that pulls out any error messages from the end-of-invocation logs created by dbt Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code below will validate the authenticity of the request, extract the run logs for the completed job from the Admin API, and then build a summary message that pulls out any error messages from the end-of-invocation logs created by dbt Core.
```
